So now we're going to talk about
our page rank application,
and you can see the .zip file,
download the sample code for this, and so
you can download that and
get this running on your computer.
So what we're going to basically do is
write a Python program that crawls a web
page, then we're going to run a simple
version of Google's Page Rank algorithm,
which attempts to determine which pages
are better than other pages by counting
the inbound links to that page.
But then you only want to count
the links from good pages, so
you have to count the links to those
pages, and the links to those pages, and
eventually you kind of go sort
of infinitely until the value of
each link stabilizes, and then you
kind of have the value of the page.
And then we're going to visualize
the resulting network using
a visualization software called D3,
just in a browser.
And so this is the picture of it.
We are going to kind of
come back to this picture.
First, we are going to have,
the most important part of this process is
the spidering process, which is
going to read pages from the Web, and
going to keep track of the links
that have been followed and
then the links that
are about to be followed.
So spider's probably our most
sophisticated application,
because it's restartable.
That's the key to spider.
We have the ability.
We're going to put all
this stuff in a database.
And we'll be able to dump that database.
We'll be able to run
the ranking algorithm,
which actually just changes the database.
The ranking algorithm is a loop and
it kind of keeps track of how accurate it
is and how much it's changing the network.
If we want to restart things,
we can run this spreset.
And then if we want to
visualize it we use spjson
to dump the data into this force.js file.
And then we visualize it
using force.html and d3.js.
You won't really have to
write any of this code.
The code we write will stop here,
it's just these Python programs.
And that's what we're going to do.
Let's take a look at the data model.
The data model for
this application is pretty simple.
It basically uses two pages, two tables.
One table is the actual pages.
And in here, during the spidering phase
we're going to to use this url, html, and
error to indicate what we're
going to be retrieving.
What happens is,
we'll start at one URL, we'll retrieve it,
and we'll put the HTML for that.
But then we'll use Beautiful Soup
to tear out all the links, and
then we'll add new records to this, okay?
And then what we have to do is,
this Pages is going to grow very rapidly.
This Pages database is going to grow very
rapidly, mostly with unretrieved pages.
So we'll get a page and
it'll have 20 links on it.
So then we'll have one link that's been
retrieved and 20 that haven't retrieved.
Then we'll go to the next link, and
that page will have 20 links on it.
So we'll have two pages retrieved and
40 links.
So the unretrieved grows really rapidly.
And we're going to use this as,
we're going to basically say,
when html is empty, that means it's
unretrieved, and then, well, or error.
So if we hit pages that have errors,
then we're going to ignore them,
and we'll mark down that
we had an an error.
So if html is empty and error is empty,
then we're going to retrieve the page.
And so then there's a loop
of code that goes up and
says, do we have any unretrieved pages?
Randomly grab an unretrieved page,
retrieve it, parse all the links, and
then add to the end of the database.
Now, as we do this,
we're going to have to capture the links.
And so we're going to use a, it's a
many-to-many relation, but the reality is,
it's a many-to-many relation
back onto the Pages table.
So there's a link, so if we have a page
that has a link to another page, this
is the from page and this is the to page,
and so we have a from_id and a to_id.
So this is an arrow, the from_id
to to_id.
So the from_id links to a page.
And so this might be 41,
and this might be 17, so
that means page 41 links to page 17.
And effectively, the primary key is
the page ID that we're going to use.
Now, the way to think about this is
that it's really a, both ends of
the foreign key, the from_id and
point to id, point back into the Pages.
So for me, and mentally,
the way I draw is,
I kind of pretend there's a second
copy of Pages over here, and so
there's this many-to-one relationship,
many-to-one, you know,
many-to-one, which is really just
a many-to-many between Pages and itself.
So we'll have uniqueness constraints here,
and we'll only allow one combination
of a from page and a to page.
But the key is, the links are directional,
there's a from and a to.
It's not symmetric.
Some links are symmetric, in this case
with Pages, because we're going to take
the goodness of the page rank and
flow them out.
And then, so that's the retrieval process.
We're going to focus on the url,
html, and error.
And then the page rank, once we sort
of have all these links modeled,
then we will have little page rank values,
two page rank values in each page,
and there's the old one and the new one.
So what it does is it takes the old page
rank value and kind of transfers it out,
and then computes the new one, and
then it rotates all the news to the olds,
and then it does it again and
again and again.
And we'll run this over and
over and over again.
So, the page rank is really looking
at this bit of data right here.
Okay?
So let's go ahead and get started
taking a look at some of the code.
Okay, so let me go ahead and run it.
Now, I'm sitting here in a pagerank
folder that you would have somewhere on
your hard drive, pagerank.zip,
the file spider.sqlite,
you can delete that anytime you
want to start this thing over.
python spider.py.
Because we're first starting out and
it sees no, sees nothing in the database,
it basically says,
where would you like me to start.
Hit Enter, it will actually start at
the Python data that we've been using for
the class.
So I'm just going to hit Enter.
So it says, okay, I'll start at
the top of python-data.dr-chuck.net.
So if you go to this page, you will
see that it's mostly like five links and
then it goes into our names.
Let me show you that page.
Let me just remind you
what that page looks like.
Python-data.dr-chuck.net.
So it's a series of links.
This thing will not leave the website,
otherwise our page rank would never work.
And so what it's really going to do is
going to go into this set of friend lists
and then, once it gets that data, then
it's going to have another set of links.
File this link.
So that's what it's going to do,
it's going to start, each one of these
pages is going to have a bunch of links.
Now, the way this works is, you've been
playing with this in other assignments,
but it turns out that some people
have more friends than others.
And that's actually what we're going to
figure out in this particular page rank,
is who has the most friends.
Okay?
And so, the key thing, if we look at
this whole process, if we look at
the process that we're working on right
now, we're working on this process.
And the key to any process like this, it's
slow, it uses network bandwidth, and
you want to make sure you're committing
to the database every time through.
You retrieve a page,
stick it in the database, and commit.
Retrieve a page, stick it in the database.
We've had some situations where that has
gotten kind of slow at times because we're
committing so often, but the retrieval is
slow, so we don't want to lose any data.
That's why you do the commit in databases.
But we want to be able to stop this and
start this.
We'll either tell it to do ten and
then start over and
it'll pick it where it left off,
or we will tell it to 100 and
then just hit Ctrl+C or
Ctrl+Z to blow it up.
Let me start the SQLite browser too, so
you can kind of watch what's
going to happen here.
So, I'm only going to retrieve one page.
Okay, and so that retrieved one page, and
I'm just going to hit Enter to get out of
that, and
now I'm going to take a look at that file.
That file is spider.sqlite, okay?
And so now I'm going to open that in my
SQLite browser so we can take a look at
what's going on and see the kind of
the structure of what's going on here.
Open Database.
Desktop.
pythonlearn.
code.
pagerank and then spider.sqlite.
Open.
So we have Links, Pages, and Webs.
Webs is just a little scratch space
to keep track of what's going on.
If I say Browse Data, and
I take a look at Links.
Start with Webs.
This is just keeping track of which page
we started with so it can start back up.
But once it gets started,
it actually is more interested in Pages.
So it's retrieved one page, okay?
And so it retrieved the page,
it actually has the HTML for
that page, and it doesn't have an error,
which is okay.
It's either going to get you html or
error.
And then old rank and
new rank are what we're going to use when
we're doing the page rank calculation.
Okay?
And so that's what we look like right now.
And if I start the program again,
I run spider again,
it's going to actually,
what it does is it looks for any URL with
the html null and error null and says, oh
that's something we haven't touched yet,
and then it goes and grabs that page, and
then it looks for links in that page.
Oh. Hang on.
Gotta show you all this stuff
before we get too complex,
because it's going to get big really fast.
If we switch and we look at Links,
so we have these seven pages.
We've only retrieved one of them,
but we have lots of links.
1 links to 2, 1 links to 3.
This is the from_id,
this is where it's looping back.
1 links to 2, 1 links to 3, 1 links to 4,
1 links to 5, 1 links to 6,
1 links to 7.
So we retrieved page one and
it caused six more pages, and
we recorded the fact
that they are the links.
Okay?
And so now we're ready to
retrieve the second page.
And I'll just retrieve one more page, and
we're going to retrieve one more page.
So it grabbed, well, okay,
that was, it found an XML page.
So let's go get one more page.
Well, okay, I can show you real
quick what happens hopefully there.
Pages.
Let's get out and
then hit refresh here, hit refresh.
I think it just deleted that page.
So let's grab another page,
one more, okay.
So that got seven more links, so
now if I refresh the Pages, okay.
So it retrieved this page, and you see it
found a whole bunch more links, right?
There's all these links.
So it's only retrieved two pages, but
that page that it retrieved
had a bunch of outbound links.
And so if we look at the links,
there are tons of them.
Page 1 links to 6, 1 links to 7,
7 links to 8, 9, 10, 11.
All these unretrieved pages.
Okay?
So let's take a quick look
at some of this code so
you can see how this turns
out to work inside code.
Up next, we're going to look at some code
to see how this all works in the code.